today is your lucky day the champ
uploaded a new video and you found it
I'm joking it's your lucky day because
Islam net is establishing a mega mid and
da Center and you have a unique
opportunity to be part of that so click
the link below and donate
now how are you guys doing and welcome
to the most inconsistent podcast in the
world the MH podcast but actually it's
becoming a little bit more consistent
and here joined with someone that
probably to you guys does not need an
introduction but I'll give it anyway
he's a historian he's a person who is
one of the premier debators of the
Muslim world he has debated some of the
top guys uh in the Christian World and
Other Faith Traditions as well and has
come on top I'm talking about none other
than the one and only Nan Rashid how are
you doing okay Mah thank you so much
having me of course of course man you
know it's I think long over du a lot of
people have been asking me to do this
kind of um things with you and now
because we've got the conf conflict um
let's not call it the conflict let's
call it the oppression of the
Palestinian people we've got the
oppression of the Palestinian people
people is piqued people's interest in
terms of um exactly the history of
Palestine the history of Jewish people
the history of of the interaction
between Muslim people and Jewish people
today we want to focus on some of the
interactions between Muslim people and
Jewish people because the narrative
there is one narrative which is quite
Sinister and inous which seems to
indicate that the Muslim project not
Hamas or any of these groups no the
Muslim project itself is one that
attempts to kill off all of the Jewish
people and that Islam is intolerant of
Jews and that the historical record uh
basically shows that so how would you
and you've debated this issue as well um
with with prominent individuals and less
prominent individuals as well um how
would you debate this issue how would
you make a builder case for the contrary
point of view so a lot of the Zionist
propagandists they come up with this
idea that that Islam is
inherently anti-jewish this is what they
claim therefore we need a Homeland we
need to protect ourselves we need to
take Land from the Palestinians and
build our own ancient uh Homeland or
Homeland that was ancient we need to
reclaim it we we need to take it back
and they quote Biblical verses in this
regard uh to to claim that they have
possession or they have right over this
land okay so we show them that Muslims
Ruled the Land of Palestine in
particular and much of the land around
it for for nearly a thousand years with
an iron fist with strength with military
presence with economic dominance with
educational uh uh inspiration and all
those things Muslims did great things
Islamic civilization or the Muslim
civilization was one of the greatest
things that happened in this region okay
the question now is how did the Muslim
civiliz I ization treat the Jewish
people as an entity as a community yeah
and those zionists who are claiming this
today propagandists Liars out outright
Liars yes who claim this that the Jewish
people suffered suffered under the rule
of Islam so we cannot be ruled by the
Muslims okay if the Palestinians want
their land back and uh they want all of
it back the Israelis come back and say
you cannot have all of it back because
you will kill all of us okay so when
yeah for example when people
Palestinians when they want this land
back the Israelis come back and say oh
that means a genocide of the Jewish
people this is the game a lot of these
Zionist propagandist play deliberately
quite deliberately they claim that if
the Palestinians are to come back to
their lands and take their lands lands
back that means automatically a genocide
of the Jewish people because Jewish
people are not safe under Palestinians
or the Muslim people in
general we want to undo that notion
today we want to present evidence to the
contrary and show how the civilization
of Islam or the Muslim civilization
saved the Jewish people for over a
thousand years what do I mean by saved
the Jewish people saved them from whom
okay Jewish people lived within the Dom
of Islam for over a thousand years in
fact the majority of them lived within
the domains of Islam some of them lived
in Christian lands and they were being
persecuted they were being killed off
they were being exiled they were being
brutalized there are so many examples I
can cite in this Regard in fact to give
you one example
hijab when the Muslims arrived in
Spain in the year 711 CE mhm a Jewish
historian called Zion Zohar who is an
American Jewish historian he writes in
his book a history of safic and mitsi
jeury on page eight and nine he writes
that history of a history of safic and
mitsi jurri
okay uh basically this is a history of
the sapharic Jews okay sapharic Jews are
basically Jews who lived in the Middle
East mainly or in the Muslim lands yeah
so in this history on page 8 and Page n
he States when the Muslims arrived at
Gibralter in 711 CE the Jewish people
welcomed them as liberators mhm so who
are they being liberated from is the
question now if you go back to Christian
history of Spain you will see in the
year 633 CE almost 80 years before the
Muslims arrived there was a council a
Catholic ecumenical council held in the
city of Toledo this was called the
fourth Council of Toledo in this Council
when was this 633 CE in this Council I
mean anyone can Google the fourth
Council 633 CE exactly a year after the
prophet of Islam passed away that's
right sallallahu alaihi wasallam okay in
this Council it was decreed by the
Catholic church that all the children of
the Jewish people are to be taken away
by
force and they are to be converted to
Catholicism and are to be raised as
Pious Catholics by Catholics in other
words forced conversion of the Jewish
people and the
children this is the kind of persecution
destruction and brutality the Jewish
people were facing yes in Spain before
the Muslims arrived therefore when the
Muslims came in 711c almost 80 years
after this conf this uh this particular
Catholic Council the Jewish people
welcomed the Muslims as liberators and
this is confirmed by Jewish Scholars
Jewish historians today z z z Zohar is
one of them as
quoted so this was the attitude of the
Jewish people who were being liberated
from Christian persecution by the
Muslims mhm and this happened even in
the land of Palestine when the second
kff of
Islam when he took the land of Palestine
from the byzantines from the
Romans one of the Clauses in the treaty
that was agreed upon between the
Christians and the Muslims at the time
was that the Muslims will not bring the
Jewish people into the city of Jerusalem
with them the Christians did not want
the Jewish people in the city of
Jerusalem the text of the treaty can be
found in the history of tabi okay it is
there yeah the text of the treaty is
there and one of the Clauses put by the
Christians M as a special request from
the Muslims was that you will not allow
the Jewish people to come and live in
the city of Jerusalem later on having
Consolidated their power the Muslims
welcomed the Jewish people into the city
of Jerusalem to come and live side by
side with the the Muslims Thomas Arnold
Walker also mentions this in his
preaching of Islam as well he absolutely
absolutely Karen Armstrong Karen
Armstrong who has written a history of
Jerusalem in that history she
specifically writes that it was under
the system of Islam
whereby the three abrahamic faiths
coexisted for the first time in history
it was under the rule of Islam it was
the system of Islam that facilitated
this peaceful coexistence now was it
hijab the question is now was it just
Toleration tolerance or was it
prosperity for the Jewish people before
we get there P Devil's Advocate
someone's going to say well you're
mentioning all the the points where
Jewish people were welcomed in but if
you look for example you talked about
Spain someone can just bring up the MU
and say look the MU were a very
intolerant bunch and in fact they
expelled the Jewish people and dealt
them a very heavy hand absolutely there
are cases there are incidents whereby
some Jewish people some communities were
targeted by some Kings and some
dynasties but these were exceptional
cases see this was not the norm of the
Muslim civil and you're not you're not
denying that you you accept that there
have been some of those people because
some will say well in the beginning you
said there always been good but you're
saying that there's exceptions to the
rule and you wouldn't discount those cuz
someone's watching that say but what
about this and what about that yeah
first of all we're not claiming a Utopia
yeah we're not claiming a Utopia we're
not claiming Perfection we're not saying
that it was always 100% uh absolutely
amazing no what we are saying is that
overwhelming uh pattern let's say the
overwhelming um um the overwhelming
condition uh or the condition of the
Jewish people was positive
overwhelmingly okay to put it in the
right way okay the Jewish people from
the very Advent of Islam in Arabia all
the way up to the 1930s coexisted with
the Muslims peacefully in fact they felt
protected they felt that they are
prosperous they felt that they are safe
this is examples of prosper can you
bring to the table then there are so
many and I will quote some of the Jewish
testimonies in this regard okay if me
and you sit here and talk today and
speak on behalf of the Muslim
civilization and praising it and paying
lavish tributes to it that's going to be
seen as bias of course okay this is this
is basically Prejudice speaking these
Muslim propagandists sitting there in
front of the camera they are just I'm
not going to do that today what you've
done is you frankly you've you've you've
quoted an academ resource of a Jewish
scholar absolutely so far that's what
You' done then you quoted Karen
Armstrong who's a non-muslim English
scholar of academic exactly and I have a
lot more I have a plethora of quotes and
testimonies from uh primary sources
Jewish rabbis and Jewish Travelers who
were living in those times in those
places in those cities under those
dynasties what they had to say about the
Muslim treatment towards the Jewish
people and then later on secondary
sources modern scholarship also confirms
those testimonies only the Zionist
project only the Zionist project has a
problem with this mhm only the zionists
have an agenda to reject this entire
history only they question the notion of
the the Golden Age of the House of
Israel under Islam only they are the
ones who question this because it
dismantles their propaganda it dis it
dismantles their narrative what is the
narrative the Jewish people are
perpetually threatened by the the the
the rule of Islam the Jewish people
basically are in danger from the Muslims
or the Palestinians for that matter yeah
okay we will show that throughout
history for over a thousand years the
Jewish people not only lived peacefully
with the Muslims or under the rule of
Islam but
prospered became very happy and
successful you are at the seventh and
8th Century you you mentioned 71 last
8th century and then you mentioned kind
of like the time of which is about the
sth century so okay you you've mentioned
what's happening say in the Middle East
and all the way up to Spain in that
period of time yes what if someone says
Okay that was in the beginning but then
things started taking a different turn
um that that's not the case because what
I'm going to do is I'm going to produce
evidence yeah from different places yes
at different times okay and this
evidence is going to give us pretty much
the same picture okay that the condition
of the Jewish people remained pretty uh
pretty good throughout the history of
the Muslim civilization yes there were
incidents where some Jewish people for a
number of different reasons were
targeted uh due to their political
activism or other things okay and many
of these things happen because of
political reasons okay but if you look
at Jewish people as a community
Merchants Traders Scholars
okay Physicians they flourished
throughout the history of Islam with the
Muslims and we're going to see the
evidence inshallah very quickly first
thing I want to very quickly uh bring to
attention uh for everyone to see is how
did the Jewish people feel under the
rule of Islam okay um so the Zionist
propaganda is that Jewish people are
threatened okay they they will never be
safe under the rule of Islam or with the
Muslims we will show that's not the case
to the the contrary if the Jewish people
ever flourished uh throughout the
history of diaspora you know what
diaspora is diaspora is Jewish Exile
from the Holy Land in the year 132 CE
Emperor hadrien banished the Jewish
people from the land of Palestine on
pain of death if any Jew was found in
the land of Palestine by the Roman
authorities after this decree that Jew
would be killed on the spot yeah okay so
this happened after a famous Revolt
called the Revolt of bar kba this took
place when Emperor Hadrian the Roman
Emperor one of the most powerful Roman
emperors was ruling uh from Rome Hadrian
and the City of Jerusalem was completely
raised to the ground and renamed Elia
after the name of the Roman Emperor
Elias hadrianus okay so since then the
Jewish people were scattered all over
the world they were scattered this is
what the Jewish people refer to as the
diaspora
okay the Jewish people suffered severely
under the Roman rule firstly and then
the Christian rule because the
Christians were also anti-jewish
anti-semitic why because they blamed the
Jewish people are doing what killing
their God killing God yeah okay what we
call Di side okay so the Jewish people
were accused of killing Jesus Christ so
his crucifixion the crucifixion of Jesus
Christ was instigated according to the
gospels by the way if you read the the
gospel text it has two
people uh blamed for the the crucifixion
and the brutalization of Jesus Christ
the Jewish people the rabbis the Jewish
authorities of the city of Jerusalem and
the Roman authorities okay so the Jewish
people suffered first under the Romans
then the Christians came to power after
some Roman emperors accepted
Christianity they converted to
Christianity they started to persecute
the Jewish people it was not until Islam
came to the scene that the Jewish people
could find some
respite some Refuge some level of peace
and tolerance where they could flourish
where they could produce Scholars poets
Merchants Traders rabbis okay
theologians uh intellectuals politicians
Prime Ministers MH Prime Ministers to
give you one example in the 9th in the
10th Century the most powerful King in
Western Europe was a man called
abdurahman III who was the
cff in Spain Spain MH who ruled much of
Spain mhm and guess who his prime
minister was this was a very powerful
man called haai IB
chaut ha chaut was
the the prime minister of the Muslim
Kiff in Cordoba mhm because Corda was
the center of the caliphate the califate
in Spain in 929 abdurahman III declared
himself to be the kff of the Muslim
world and his prime minister was none
other than a Jewish man called HDA IB
chaut HB chaut when he was the the vazer
yes uh the Prime Minister he wrote a
letter to the Jewish king of
kesars which was a territory near
Georgia
today and he writes in this letter from
Mand
praise be to the beneficent God for his
Mercy towards me king of the earth to
whom his the cff's magnificence and
power are known bring gifts to him
conciliating his favor by costly
presence such as the the king of the
Germans and the king of the uh
jeim the king of Constantinople and
others all their gifts passed through my
hands and I am charged with making gift
gifts in return let my lips Express
praise to the God in heaven who so far
extends his loving kindness towards me
without any Merit of my own but in the
fullness of his mercies I always ask the
ambassadors of these monarchs about our
Brethren the Jews the remnant of the
Captivity whether they have heard
anything concerning the Deliverance of
those who have pined in bondage and had
found No Rest basically H chaut was
where can we find that if someone says
what's the source of this thing uh we
will put the source in the comment
section okay uh we will put all the
sources the entire text of these quotes
in the first comment the pin comment of
this video people can go and check out
these sources okay because we're going
to be putting out a lot of stuff here
okay so people can found the secondary
and the primary sources I am quoting
from H chaput is the prime minister of
Spain is Islamic Spain writing a letter
to his Jewish counterpart the king of
kesar's uh in
khazaria khazaria is currently Georgia
to close to Georgia okay this territory
uh became Jewish it's a long story okay
the kesar yeah they they are Jewish
converts well the whole thing yeah the
whole the whole territory the king
became Jewish and his people also
followed into jewi no this is the 9th
century in particular when the the
people converted 800 years okay very
interesting very interesting
yeah so HDA had found about found out
about them so haai is Right writing to
the Kings of King of
Kazar asking him whether they are the
Lost Jewish tribes mhm which L lost
Jewish tribes in 721 BC yeah the
Assyrians attacked the northern state of
Israel because after Solomon King
Solomon Solan alisam and when we say
isra is here 721 this Israel is
basically the Israelites 10 tribes
ruling a territory they called Israel so
is this is arat Israel right yes that's
right this is because the word Israel
didn't really I mean arat the land of
the israels no it it was a state because
after Solomon King Solomon ruled A
Confederacy of 12 tribes yeah of the
Israelites after he died the this
Confederacy basically uh split into two
two two states in the South we had Judea
ruling from the capital of Jerusalem and
in the north we had Israel consisting of
is oh Israel the state they called it
the state of Israel okay uh it wasn't
the current state of Israel clearly
because they they were religious people
they were Israelites they had prophets
among them okay yeah so their Capital
was Samaria okay which is modern day
What U modern day it's it's close to
it's in Palestine it's in Palestine okay
um so
721 Assyrians on north um uh this this
basically Dynasty or this these people
Assyrians were ruling territory Northern
Iraq parts of turkey and parts of Syria
they were called Assyrians okay a
Mesopotamian uh civilization they
attacked the the
northern country of Israel mhm they took
these 10 tribes into Exile M okay and
and these 10 tribes disappeared from
history forever so HDA IB chaut was
actually inquiring about these 10 lost
tribes of
Israel okay so HB chaut was a very
powerful man why am I quoting haai and
what he said about his own position that
he was the vazir and he was receiving
all the gifts for the cffs and he was
returning these gifts to the Kings on
behalf of the cff so this is a very
powerful position okay clearly someone
marginalized someone who is disliked or
hated wouldn't be in this position
that's the point I'm
making moving
on okay another character who had
similar powerful position a similar
powerful position in in in Spain was
Samuel iban
nagela Samuel IB nagela was a very
powerful Diplomat politician and the
prime minister of the state of Gren
okay in southern
Spain and one of his biographers called
Abraham IB daud writing you know in the
12th century a Jewish chronicler he
elaborates upon hanagid significance for
the spread of the Jewish tradition
Samuel Ian nagela was also called
hanagid okay so he writes he achieved
great good for Israel in
Spain the MB afria Egypt Sicily indeed
as far as the academy in Babylonia and
the holy city The Academy of Babylonia
was in Iraq under the rule of Islam by
the way the Muslims ruling Iraq at the
time okay he provided material benefits
out of his own pocket for students of
Torah in all these countries Muslim
countries yeah this is a Jewish prime
minister in Islamic Spain in the state
of Granada who is doing all this benefit
for the Jewish people talk Samuel this
is the we're talking about the 11th
century okay 1060s okay to be precise
okay Samuel hanagid Samuel Ian nagela
hanagid okay so he basically he was
benefiting not only his own people in
Spain Islamic Spain where the Jewish je
Jewish people were living at the time
he's benefiting all the Jewish people
living in M currently Morocco Aria which
is Tunisia Egypt Sicily and even as far
as Iraq and the holy city which is
Jerusalem yeah
okay so Abraham I Da goes on to say he
provided material benefits out of his
own pocket for students of Torah in all
these
countries he also purchased many books
of the Holy scriptures as well as of the
mishna and talmud which are also among
the holy writings throughout Spain and
the countries just mentioned whoever
wish to devote full time to the study of
the Torah found in him a patron moreover
he retained scribes who would make
copies of the Mish and telm which he
would present to students who were
unable to purchase copies
themselves both in theems of Spain as
well as of the other countries we
mentioned these gifts were um coupled
with annual contributions of olive oil
for the synagogues of Jerusalem which he
would dispatch from his own own home he
spread Torah abroad and died at a ripe
old age after having earned four crowns
the crown of Torah the crown of power
the crown of levite and the toing over
uh them all by Dent of good deeds in
each of these domains the crown of a
good name Samuel bin nagela hanagid the
prime minister of Granada in Muslim
nasid Dynasty okay helping all the
Jewish people in Muslim territories who
were living in peace and Harmony in
Morocco Tunisia Egypt Jerusalem as far
as Iraq because so powerful was this
prime minister he was helping students
of the Torah the mishna and the telm the
Jewish tradition in other words he was
trying to promote Jewish scholarship
Jewish theology by patronizing all of
the students and Scholars in all the
Muslim territories these Jewish Scholars
were living in what does that tell you
hijab I want your commentary on this
what does that show you do you right now
this is very very um edifying because a
lot of people will be thinking I mean
for for a Jewish person to even reach
this level of political Authority I mean
you can't argue a persecution narrative
here can you I mean absolutely not and
this is as you're saying is kind of like
going into effectively this is the
Golden Age yes golden age of and I think
this this would be classified as the
Golden Age of Islam and also the Golden
Age of Judaism as well would you agree
with that absolutely 100% % and and
guess what uhab Jewish Scholars
themselves have said this I mean my
Mones when when did he come my Mones was
born in the 12th century in in Cordoba
and then he had to leave Cordoba due to
a very um difficult situation there
because a new Dynasty had come in the
the known as Al or alads they had
persecuted not only the Jewish and the
Christian people but the Muslims as well
right so many people escaped so my
escaped to what to where to Muslim lands
he found he left Cordoba for where Egypt
yeah a Egypt and became would he not be
a surgeon or something like that he was
a he was he was a private physician to
the sultan himself who which Sultan
Sultan Salah the famous Saladin yes so
my Mones having left Spain a Muslim
territory for another Muslim territory
in Egypt where he became the private
physician the private doctor of Sultan
salahudin alui so myones stands as a
towering figure in Jewish history he's
called the second Moses he's also called
the rambam okay he's known as rambam
within the Jewish tradition and the
reason why it's called the second Moses
name is m yeah exactly his Arabic name
is Musa bin Mayon he he even wrote his
books in the Arabic language using
Hebrew characters I read a book of his
actually a guide to the
perplexed yes yes a guide for a guide
for the perplexed cuz he writes about
Cam and stuff like that exactly very
very and and guess what a lot of that
stuff was taken from the Muslim
philosophers of the time he took it from
100% 100% so he was heavily inspired by
Muslim philosophy of the time he wrote
in the Arabic language he was pretty
much a Muslim philosopher oh yeah
without being a musim the arguments are
very similar to be
honest but what was the situation of the
Jewish people in Spain I mean one can
argue that oh these were Prime Ministers
you mentioned HDA chapu you mentioned
Samuel bin nagela hanit and these people
were very powerful no doubt one was a
vzer a prime minister in Cordoba the
other one was a vazer in Granada okay
the the capital city of the nasri
dynasty of Granada what about the common
Jewish people living in Spain at the
time let's go to a rabbi okay let's go
to a Jewish rabbi writing in 1080s okay
in the city of Cordoba very dyy was this
you know this was again the the the
aftermath this was period okay when
Muslims had already pretty much split
into many different small dynasties in
Spain this is after the umay caliphate
had already fallen okay okay so we
talked about the vazer the prime
minister of the umad speaking from
Cordoba in the 10th Century let's go on
to the next Century 1080s in the 11th
century bah bin bakuda a Jewish rabbi he
writes from the city of Cordova in the
year 1080 to be precise and I quote him
in hisab he wrote a trees okay
titled in this book this Jewish rabbi
writes if one of our contemporaries
looks for similar Miracles now let him
examine objectively our situation among
the
Gentiles Muslims in this case since the
beginning of the diaspora and the way
our Affairs are managed in spite of the
differences between us and them both
secret and
open which are well known to them let
him see that our situation as far as
living and subsistence are concerned is
the same as theirs or even better so
Baya bin pakuda writing in 1080 from the
city of Cordoba is saying that as far as
the living conditions are concerned we
live better than the Muslims our living
condition are better than the
Muslims now this is absolutely amazing
this is fascinating how the Jewish
people having having been liberated from
the Christian persecution of Christendom
or Christian territories felt so safe
and happy within the the Muslim
territory now one can argue that oh this
may be you know due to the Good Will of
the ruler or the dynasty or maybe the
culture of Spain but we can move on to
other territories yeah cuz some someone
will say well talking about you know
Spain some some historians refer to this
period as a period of convenia exactly
coming together and all that kind of
stuff yeah so may it was the culture it
was the culture and that's and in fact
some some schols say that's that's the
West you're talking about actually
that's they've had the Western influence
not really because the West was
absolutely devastating for the Jewish
people let me very quickly explain what
was happening in the west at the time
this is the same time when the Crusades
are taking place pretty much about the
same time right the Crusades started in
the 11th century soon after B bakuda was
writing in Corda because he was writing
in 1080s right and Crusade started in
1090s 1095 to be precise when Pope Urban
II delivered his speech at Clon and he
instigated the Crusades right in 1099
the Crusaders took the city of Jerusalem
now so much hate was found among
Christians of the North in Germany
France and Britain to be precise because
Eastern Europe was pretty much barbaric
they were still semi- civilized or semi
barbarized okay okay you know yeah all
these ter some would really have a
problem with this and say that's no but
that's that's a historical fact they say
that's you know that's a g sweeping
generalization no it's it's not because
because we don't know anything about Li
Lithuania and Poland and all these
territories at that time from Silence
they'll say you know but we would have
any if we had any text any literature we
would know about it right there's
nothing it's like the Vikings you know
the Vikings we don't have anything from
the Vikings unfortunately as beautiful
as the artwork was okay we found the
tools their weapons some of the money
they bued we have found all of that we
have found the boats okay some of the
helmets they were they were capable of
artwork but we don't know any we don't
know anything about them likewise
Eastern Europe was pretty much in
darkness in that sense in that sense
right but Germans and the French and the
the British had already taken
Catholicism as their religion okay they
were heavily persecuting the Jewish
people those Jewish people who exist
existed with the Christians in the
Northern Territories in northern Europe
okay they suffered severely so when the
Crusaders left their homes to go and
Liberate the Holy Land from the Muslims
every Jewish town they passed they
massacred the Jewish community of Rin
land in Germany was completely decimated
was completely destroyed yeah okay the
Jewish people were completely wiped out
in Germany in fact those Bishops and
churchmen who tried to save them they
were also burnt with the Jewish people
by these angry mobs of the Crusaders
mhm similarly later on uh Richard the
lionart when he announced his Crusade
against Sultan salahudin ayubi how did
he start his Crusade he started he
started it with the Jewish people of
London a massacre against the Jewish
people of London was conducted MH when
Richard was the king it doesn't stop
there even afterwards when Edward the
long Shank or Edward the first the the
very famous King you know this movie
everyone's seen it Mel Gibson's movie
The Brave heart okay the king uh
depicted and that that movie is the king
I'm talking about wildly inaccurate
movie I've heard it is it is of course
it's not historic movies are not
generally entirely historic okay uh but
there is a king depicted in the movie
called Edward the long shank yeah okay
this King also banished the Jewish
people from Britain confiscated their
properties took their money because he
needed money for his castle building
program in in North Wales so he needed
the money and he banished the Jewish
people likewise the king of France also
banished the Jewish people in uh the
13th century similarly to what Edward
did in uh in England so the Jewish
people the question is where were they
finding refuge in Muslim lands in Muslim
territories in large numbers that's why
many Jewish historians said this
repeatedly that the majority of the
Jewish people lived under the domain of
Islam for over a thousand years they
mention Z zoha who else would like
Jewish what other Jewish historians have
said that then we will see you'll be
you'll be completely uh fascinated so
that's why I'm moving chronologically
I'm going with a chronology okay I'm
mentioning these things from different
places yeah from different times so the
people don't think that we're just
making things up and what happened you
started with 7-Eleven okay but before
that you went really spoke
a little bit so that's in the 7th
Century like maybe 640s 650s something
like that and then afterwards you
mentioned uh T zad and his Conquest in
711 you you mentioned before that before
711 you mentioned that the Council of
too in 636 you said 633 633 uh where
whereby it was mentioned that the force
conversions so we have here already um a
kind of Preamble of what's going to
happen 7-Eleven came along and then uh
you mentioned Zion zoha Zion zoha
stating in page eight of his book
history of the Jews or history of jewry
that he mentioned that they considered
the Muslims coming in as some kind of
liberat liberators and then and then you
mentioned we kind of skipped a couple of
centuries but we went to like let's say
the 11th century and we talked about
some of these wi if you like in the
Corda and Granada yeah the point was
that the Jewish people had had reached
such powerful positions yeah that they
were they couldn't they couldn't
possibly be marginalized wouldn't be uh
persecuted and what you've done just now
is you've you've spoken about what the
alternative really was in uh this
Western Europe so you spoke about rich
and de lionhart around let's say the
11th century the end of the 11th century
and then you mentioned uh Edward
longchang as well so the Jewish people
always lived in a state of fear in the
western world yeah in Western Europe in
northern Europe okay as late someone
accus you of being General generalizing
no I am not because because the Jewish
historians will confirm this and we will
see when I read the quotes you will be
completely blown away you'll be shocked
to to to find uh that the Jewish people
the Jewish historians themselves stated
that the Jews suffered severely under
the rule of Christian um Kings and
dynasties no it was under the rule of
Islam where they found Refuge the
Muslims gave them refuge for over a
thousand years for them to survive and
flourish are we also going to cover the
as well we've spoken a lot about we've
spoken somewhat about you know
the the the rashif we've spoken a lot
about the the Spanish MH once again
there's going to be all that kind of
discussion about bias because it's in
Europe and European um kind of uh
prerogative that they'll say well that's
that's because it's an our continent
kind of thing and what what about the
Ottomans I mean someone will say what
about the OT we haven't got to that yet
obviously we haven't got because this is
why I'm moving with uh
rough
chronology my mod is when was when did
he when was he around 12th century yeah
12th century he died in 124 okay so he
died in the 13 early 13th century he
died in 1204 but he was alive in the
12th century he was born in Corda and
died in Egypt under the rule of the aits
okay yeah so another Jewish traveler
called Benjamin tudella Benjamin of
tudela from Spain a Spanish Jew who
traveled to Bagdad in 1168 CE again the
12th century described the situation of
the Iraqi Jews in these words he States
in Bagdad there are about 40,000
Jews and they dwell in security
prosperity and honor under the great cff
and amongst them are great sages the
heads of the academies engaged in the
study of the law could one argue and
this is good but could one argue that
well this is he had to say that because
if he didn't say that and it was
published the the authorities of the
time would have killed him well he
wasn't even publish publishing for these
authorities this he had written when he
came back to Spain so he he was in
security he was writing for his own
audience for his own people he's simply
testifying to the peace and prosperity
the fact that he was a traveler
strengthens the exactly so he came from
Spain he was a Spanish Jew who traveled
to Spain and I'm assuming bit like kind
kind of or he he probably he could have
traveled for two reasons trading or uh
seeking knowledge of the law from the
sages he mentions in this quote in
Bagdad or in Babylon this this the
oldest Jewish community in the world
dynasty was this this was the abases the
kff at the time was Al mustan the kff at
the time ruling was al- mustan who ruled
from 1160 to 1170 CE okay so was this
when the when the ubid had also
established EXA Aid are not around yet
this this is the Zenit period Imad Zin
and his son nin
zinan yeah Sultan Salin yub still a very
young man at this time so when Benjamin
toilla uh when he traveled 1168 is the
year Sultan salubi would be by this time
uh 31 years old okay because he was born
in 11:37 so the a dynasty was
established what 30 years after that
yeah yeah pretty much yes yes so so this
is this is this is this is not the AIT
period yet so but the weak at the time
right exactly but the kff did rule the
territory of Bagdad or around Bagdad so
the kff had power in Bagdad that's why
he mentions the kff that the great kff
uh and amongst them are great sages the
heads of the academies engaged in study
of the law so he's talking about the
Jewish rabbis in Iraq who were the most
ancient Community the Jewish community
in the world
since the Babylonian
exile that took place in the 6th Century
BC to be precise 5 87 BC when the
Babylonian King Nebuchadnezzar took men
the Bible yeah the Exile the famous
Babylonian exile into Babylon into Iraq
Babylon was Iraq okay whereby the entire
Israelite population uh whatever
remained of the Israelites because the
10 tribes are already gone remember I
mentioned the Assyrians came in 721 CE
uh sorry 721 BC before Christ they took
the entire population into Exile and
they disappeared from history we have no
idea what happened to those 10 tribes of
the the Israelites what remained was two
tribes the benjamites and the Levites
they were taken into Exile by the
Babylonians in 587 BC and this was the
first time when the Temple of Solomon
Masjid AA was raised to the ground this
was the first destruction of the temple
okay so since that
time the Jewish people some of them
never left Iraq even throughout the
Muslim period the Jewish people remained
in Iraq and the best Jewish Scholars the
best rabbis were born in Iraq the
Babylonian talmud was authored in Iraq
and it was finished during the Muslim
period really yes it was finished during
the musl Muslim Muslim period okay just
around the Muslim period when the
Muslims came you know when it
started um it is very difficult to say
when it was started okay it was I mean
there are there are two TM Palestinian
the Palestinian and the Babylonian and
it's so ironic that they say that
Palestine was not an entity or not a
word that they have a talmud by its the
Palestinian talmud exactly exactly
exactly right okay so the Babylonian
talmud was pretty much completed when
the Muslims had already taken over m
Iraq yeah okay from the sassan Empire
and these Jews remained in Iraq until
the state of Israel was created you see
the point I'm making is that the Jewish
the best Jewish Scholars the topmost
Jewish Academy in the world Dar where
the fatwas are coming the the the the
rabbis in Iraq were delivering fatwas
for the entire Jewish community in the
world even British Jews during the m
ages when they had questions they wrote
letters to theems of Babylon they called
it Babylon it was Iraq during the Muslim
period so I'm pretty sure Benjamin toel
came for similar reasons to even learn
for either either learn from the
scholars in Bagdad or in Iraq or for
trading purpose but the point here is
security prosperity and honor three
words he mentions very specifically
Benjamin Tela States in Bagdad there are
about 40,000 Jews and they dwell in
security prosperity and honor this is a
Jewish traveler from Spain testifying to
the security prosperity and honor of the
Jewish people living in Iraq with the
Muslims now moving
forward in 1420 a rabbi called Yak Safar
so what what we talking about here what
what dynasty we're talking about now
Ottomans yes okay oh we're very close to
the ottoman periods I mean the Ottomans
were established here yeah yeah pretty
much in established in what 1299 or
something yeah yeah exactly so he writes
okay uh in 1420 Rabbi
yitzak sarfati wrote a letter to his
persecuted German brothers from the
ottoman Turkish territory ader from ader
he's writing from ad a Jewish rabbi
Rabbi living with the Muslims in a Dy
writes to his German counterparts
inviting them to join him in prosperous
and tolerant tolerant Islamic lands and
he he writes and I quote your cries and
laments have reached us we have been
told of all the sorrows and persecutions
which you suffer in German lands listen
my brothers if you knew even the tenth
of what God has blessed us with in this
land you would give heat to no further
difficulties you would Embark at once to
us he the Jew is not compelled to wear a
yellow hat as a badge of Shame you will
be free of your enemies here you will
find
peace Rabbi Yak
Safari okay STI Sati yac safti writing
in 1420 okay from ad from the ottoman
territory when the ottomans are ruling
ad ad drop okay and he writes to German
Jews to invite them to that territory
why are you suffering in Germany
so they were suffering in Germany from
all the way back in the 15 absolutely I
I already told you that during the
Crusades but Germany particular like it
was yes yeah Germany was never friendly
to the Jewish people is there a reason
for that or we don't know we don't know
there are many books written on this by
the way there are chunky volumes written
by Jewish historians about the
persecution the Jewish people faced in
Christendom in particular but they will
say that Jews were enslaved at this time
and the garrisons and all that no no no
Jews generally speaking indulged in
usury okay giving debts to people um
against um heavy usury and this is why
many the many of the Jewish rabbis and
the Jewish Merchants were hated okay you
can see that in Shakespeare's Merchant
of Venice right okay that that that
depiction is is there as far as the it
as far as as late as the 16th century
okay and it continues was it the case
that Catholics were not doing us like
that because they were Catholics doing
it yeah but many kings throughout the
Middle Ages use Jewish people for this
purpose okay they were they were called
Kings Jews in many different places the
masses hated them because of this
Indulgence in Jey and whenever the
masses found an opportunity to Massacre
the Jewish people because they were not
allowed to indulge in any other trade
the Jewish people were not allowed to
indulge in any other trade so they had
found usually as a way out okay and it
made them uh uh you know live with
relative uh with relative ease because
in Jewish law it's not allowed to do
usually with other Jews but you can do
usually with non-js yeah this is a
separate topic this is to do with the
the talmudic position on well the
Islamic position is that you can't do it
full absolutely anyone islamically we
cannot do usy at all full stop or
receive it yeah give or receive it
exactly Muslims or non-muslims Muslims
or non-muslims give or take no usy no
usy but in the Jewish law the situation
is different of course and this is what
Jewish rabbis can comment on okay so we
we're dealing with history right now so
let's talk about another quote from
another Rabbi an Italian Rabbi obadia
Yar D
bero sorry da y Boro traveled to
Jerusalem in
1486 when the muks are ruling the city
of Jerusalem okay because the Ottomans
only took it in
1516 okay so to this time in 1486 the
mamalukes are ruling the city of
Jerusalem a Muslim
Dynasty he wrote a letter to his father
telling him about the country and his
people and he
writes the Jews are not persecuted by by
the Arabs in these
parts I have traveled through the
country in its length and breadth and
none of them has put an obstacle in my
way they are very kind to
strangers unlike what the Israelis are
doing
today particularly to anyone who does
not know the language and if they see
many Jews together they are not annoyed
by it in my opinion an intelligent man
versed in political science might easily
rais himself to be a chief of the Jews
as well as of the Arabs so what this
Italian Rabbi having been to Italy
having having lived in Italy the
contrast he founds in Muk Jerusalem is
that the Arabs are very kind to the
Jewish people in these lands they are
not alarmed by Jewish assemblies and if
you become learn it in political science
for example if you become a politician
you can be very powerful you can raise
to high higher ranks uh even among the
Arabs okay in other words there was no
Arabian
aparti there was no muslim aparti the
Muslims did not treat the Jewish people
as
riffraff as dirty people to be thrown
around or as someone degraded someone
you look down upon no the Jewish people
were very prosperous very powerful very
happy very very rich in terms of
economic capacity this is what this
Rabbi is saying we have a lot of
evidence to go through so let's move on
very quickly okay
so I will also quote another Jewish
rabbi okay actually this is
about
um this is yeah this is
another a Jewish historian called Elijah
Kali who describes the Jewish prosperity
in the Ottoman Empire in the following
way
okay the Jews gathered together from all
the cities of turkey both far and near
each person coming from his own place
and Community gathered in Constantinople
in his thousands and his tens of
thousands the heavens helped them to the
heavens helped them too and the King
provided them perfect Estates and houses
filled with all kinds of goodness the
Jews resided there with their families
and their Clans they were fruitful and
swarmed and multiplied and the land was
full of them from that day on whenever
the king conquered the place where there
were Jews he would immediately shake
them up and drive them from there and
dispatch them to Constantinople the seat
of his kingdom and he would pick them up
and cuddle them forever now since the
Jews feared the Lord he provided them
with houses filled with all kinds of
goodness
in a place where formerly at the time of
the king of Byzantium there were only
two or three congregations the Jews
increased in numbers becoming a people
with more than communities for the land
could not support them altogether for
their prosperity was
overwhelming this is during the Ottoman
period in Constantin his name is Elijah
Elijah Kali Prosperity this overwhelming
yeah their prosperity is
overwhelming this is unbelievable yeah
the zionists have an audacity to claim
that
they IE the Jewish people are threatened
by Islam Muslims or Palestinians for
that matter the Jewish people lived in
these territories for more than a
thousand years without any persecution
without any torture the Zionist project
disrupted the entire pieace the Zionist
came in given having given this land by
the British the land didn't belong to
the British they gave the land to the
Zionist project and the Zionist
committed the atrocities that are
unspeakable that cannot a human being
cannot imagine the kind of things they
did mass murder of the Palestinians 1
million people driven out of their homes
okay when did the Muslims do do this to
the Jewish people is the question when
did the Muslims ever do this to the
Jewish people to the contrary Muslims
protected the Islamic civilization
throughout its history whether the
dynasty the Ottomans the aits or the
omad in Spain the Jewish people felt
secure and prosperous under the rule of
Islam this is the point here that needs
to be
noted so we will move on very
quickly and we will see that it doesn't
stop
there another Jewish
migrant the Portuguese Jewish chronicler
Samuel usk okay because the Jewish
chroniclers themselves testify to the
Muslim kindness towards people okay this
is again I I will check when he was
writing I'll get back to you but people
can check Samuel usk
okay he was a portugu a Portuguese
Jewish chronicler Portuguese his name
was Samuel usk he shed some light upon
the Jewish migrants condition in the
city of Salona which was under the
ottoman rule Salena is currently in
Greece but it was ruled by the Ottomans
and so long as the Ottomans ruled the
Jewish people had one of the most
flourishing communities in this city in
the city of Salona also known as toniki
okay it's
in northern Greece he writes Samuel usk
writes the majority of my children who
have been persecuted and exiled from
Europe and many of the the parts of the
world have taken refuge in this city and
she Embraces them and receives them with
as much love and Goodwill as if she were
Jerusalem that old and ever Pious mother
of
ours okay that old and Pious mother of
our Jerusalem under the rule of Islam MH
because it's been under the rule of
Islam for nearly a thousand years
already when Samuel usk is writing okay
and he is equating Salena with Jerusalem
when it comes to Pro prosperity and
security for the Jewish people salonica
was at this time ruled by the Ottomans
when Samuel usk was writing okay another
Italian Jewish traveler David D rosi
okay an Italian Jewish traveler called
David D rosi writes he traveled through
the Ottoman Empire during the 16th
century he documented his observations
about Jewish people living in safed as
follows safed is basically the Muslim
territory you can say the Exile here is
not like our
homeland the Exile here is not like our
homeland the Turks hold respectable Jews
in esteem here and in Alexandria Egypt
Jews are the chief officers and
administrators of the customs and the
King's revenues no injuries are
perpetuated against them in all the
Empire only this year in consequence of
the extraordinary expenditure caused by
the war against
a Sufi were the Jews required to make
Advance advances of laun to the
princes so he's saying the Jews were so
Advanced and so rich that was he was he
a chronicler you said no he was an
Italian traveler okay
okay writing in the David D Roi writing
in the 16th century why we how we know
this was because there's a reference to
Shah tamas tamas was the king of per at
the time in the 16th century the
Ottomans were in a war with the Persians
and only at this time the Jewish rabbis
or sorry not Jewish rabbi Jewish Traders
were asked to give loans to princes
ottoman princes to fight the war okay
what Persian Empire was it sa safit okay
now we move on to some
contemporary views uh views uh recent
scholarship very
quickly
okay Karen Armstrong notes in her
history of Jerusalem that the Jews
hailed the early Islamic conquest of the
Byzantine lands as a mercy from
God Karen Armstrong writes toward the
end of the 7th Century a Hebrew poem
hailed the Arabs as the precursors of
the Messiah and looked forward to the in
gathering of the Jewish Exiles and the
restoration of the temple even when the
Messiah failed to arrive Jews continued
to look favorably on Islamic rule in
Jerusalem in a letter written in the
11th century the Jerusalem rabbis
recalled the the mercy God had shown his
people when he allowed the kingdom of
Ishmael the kingdom of Ishmael to
conquer Palestine what she talking about
what year 11th century a Jewish rabbi
wrote this letter okay she's quoting a
letter they were glad to remember that
when the Muslims arrived in Jerusalem
there were people from the children of
Israel with them they showed them the
spot of the temple and they settled them
uh settled with them until this very day
okay so she's referring to when Omar
came in the spot of the temple was
buried under
Rubble yeah yeah so since the Jews came
with the Muslims in other words so the
remember the Jewish people were not
allowed to live in Jerusalem from the
Roman period why saying 11th century
then because this this is a Jewish rabbi
she's quoting a Jewish rabbi he's
speaking about yeah he's speaking Cent
exactly about 7 yeah yeah
yeah yeah in about 750 the Jewish author
of The Mysteries of Rabbi Simon bin Yi
saw the building of the Dome of the Rock
as a Prelude to the Messianic age he
praises the Muslim cff as a lover of
Israel who had restored the breaches of
Zion and the breaches of the temple what
was the name of the does she mention the
name of the um the rabbi uh no she
doesn't mention okay she she simply
writes that they were they were glad to
remember that when the Muslims arrived
in Jerusalem there were people from the
children of Israel okay okay okay so she
says the Jerusalem rabbis recall the
mercy okay she doesn't mention so this
is taken from the history of Jerusalem
Karen Armstrong's history of Jerusalem
the references will be in the comment
section insh
yeah and this is what I referred to
earlier this is exactly what the quote
is these are her exact words Karen
Armstrong the Muslims had established a
system that enabled Jews Christians and
Muslims to live in Jerusalem together
for the first time these are the words
of Karen Armstrong paying a tribute to
the Muslim uh system Professor Dean
Philip Bell who is Dean and professor of
Jewish history at spus Institute of
Jewish studies in Chicago writes the
following Jews under medieval Islam
never suffered from the same general
negative perception as in the Christian
West despite Regional variations and
high medieval political instability in
medieval Islam Multicultural
environments combined with active
engagement in sciences and literature
led to something of an Islamic golden
age for the Jews at least according to
most historical accounts it has been
primarily in the context of recent
political developments that the once
assumed positive views of Jewish life
under medieval Islam have been seriously
questioned so anachronism is put in play
absolutely what Professor Dean Philip
Bell is uh saying here is that this
perception or the the the the perception
that the Jews lived in prosperity and
security throughout the Muslim territory
uh during the Muslim period or what what
they call the Golden Age of the Jewish
people under Islam this notion has only
been questioned by recent political
develop ments what is he talking about
he's talking about the state of Israel
yes it was only after the creation of
the state of Israel when the Zionist
project took this land and drove all out
the Palestinians now to claim
superiority uh over this land and over
the civilization of the Palestinians
they had to make the the Muslim
civilization look bad The Narrative had
to be the Nar had exactly if the
narrative goes as follows that the Jews
lived in prosperity and insecurity the
Muslim civilization protected the Jewish
people for over a thousand years why
then do you need a Zionist state of
Israel why can you not live with the
Muslims side CL exactly exactly so they
tried changing the narrative they tried
changing the image they tried changing
the perception that the Jewish people
ever live with Islam in prosperity and
security this is what Dean Philip Bell
is talking about the recent political
develop ments uh have challenged once
assumed positive views of Jewish life
under medieval Islam okay this is very
important by the way and this I mean
what we are saying today here has been
noticed or noted by Major academics in
the field Dean Philip Bell is the is is
is is a dean and professor of Jewish
history at at spus Institute of Jewish
studies in Chicago mhm another um quote
I want to uh very quickly share with you
I have mentioned him already Zion Zohar
who is Al also a Contemporary American
Jewish historian he confirms the Jewish
appre appreciation of the Muslim arrival
in
Spain Zan Zohar writes amazingly thus
when the Muslims crossed the Straits of
gibralta from North Africa in 71c and
invaded the Iberian Peninsula Jews
welcomed them as liberators from
Christian persecution yeah then he goes
on to write born during this era of
Islamic rule the famous golden age of
Spanish jewy Circa 900 to 1200 produced
such luminaries as Statesman and
Diplomat haai IB chaut vazir and army
Commander schm
hanagid the ones that you mention the
one we mentioned po philosophers Solomon
bin Gabriel and Judah Ali and and at the
Apex of them all Moses bin maon also
known among the Spaniard as myones so Z
Zar is pretty much confirming the Golden
Age of the House of Israel under the
rule of Islam yes basically so he's not
only saying that the Jews welcomed the
Muslims as liberators in 7-Eleven CE
when they came to Spain but the Muslims
actually gave them a golden age yeah in
return and the Jewish people so long as
the Muslims ruled Spain lived with the
Muslims
they chose to live with the Muslims
after after the last stronghold of the
Muslims fell to the Catholics in 1492
what happened to the Jewish people all
of them were completely decimated yeah
the Jewish people were in smaller number
so the Catholic monarchs Ferdinand and
Isabella okay gave the Jewish people two
choices you convert or you die you
convert or you die many Jewish people
were killed because talking about the
Inquisition this is before the
Inquisition as soon as they took the
city of Granada and of course many of
the Jewish people had to face
Inquisition because some of them
pretended to convert just like the
Muslims did so the Jewish people became
the
Converses okay and the Muslims became
the moriscos so we talking about 1492
that 1492 onwards mhm okay the most
difficult and brutal period in the lives
of Spanish Jews as well as
Muslims
then we move
on to the after that would you is it
correct to say that okay well they then
moved to the Ottoman Empire yeah many
did absolutely this is a very good point
yeah timely mention of the the Jewish
removal to the Automan territories those
Jewish those Jews very few of them who
could Escape where did they escape to to
ottoman territories they came to places
like selenica they came to places like
Constantinople they came to places like
J Jerusalem now the question is those
Jewish people who were living in
Jerusalem during the Ottoman period what
happened to them the Ottomans took the
territory of Syria Palestine and hijaz
from the mamalukes in 1516 Sultan saleim
conquered these territories and having
conquered these territories he claimed
to be the first ottoman cff
mhm what happened after that we have a
Jewish
historian who studied in two
volumes the the Jewish life as reflected
in Muslim court documents from the Sigil
of
Jerusalem okay the 16th century is this
the ultiman sigil this is the otoman
sigil just just to explain what the
sigil is then to the people because
recently um I use the sigil myself a few
times it's this is one that's written in
ottoman Turkish right yes yeah so
they've actually digitized this sigil
yes and it's it's is now part of you can
go online and there's a there's a whole
website that the Turkish government is I
think responsible absolutely amazing and
even even even this Jewish historian
from Israel his name is amnon Cohan who
has studied these uh these particular
records he has published the faimes in
in these two volumes so you can see the
fimes there as well right so what is
this this is basically a study of the
Jewish sorry a Jewish study of the
Muslim court records from the city of
Jerusalem in the 16th Jewish people yeah
just just relating to the Jewish people
okay 16th century right okay let me very
quickly explain right this is a study of
the Muslim court records yes from the
city of Jerusalem all right Jerusalem
okay yeah
and the records he studies are for 70
years yeah from 1500 to 1570 1500 to
1570 this is the record he studies so he
studies the record of the Muslim court
record who was who in baz and sorry who
was who was the the historian the call
at the time uh this is basically the
early um mamalu period and then during
the reign of Sultan suan the Magnificent
okay Sultan suan came to power in 1520
MH and he ruled until 1566 so pretty
much this you done that from memory
right yeah
yeah this is why this is why you know
anyway go ahead so this this is pretty
much the entire reign of Sultan suan the
Magnificent one of the most powerful
ottoman Sultans he's he's the one who's
who besed Vienna and also you got the
beautiful mosque yeah Sania and he's the
one who besieged Vienna this is how
powerful he was in 1533 he besieged the
city of Vienna it pretty much nearly
took Europe okay so the siege of Vienna
yeah the siege of the famous Siege of
Vienna okay that sent shivers down the
European uh intellectuals European
spines yeah even even even Martin Luther
wrote about it the Protestant the
Protestants yeah the same time right
exactly next door7 right yeah yeah when
he wrote his proant ref he was a
contemporary and he's next door he's in
Germany right and this was the siege of
Austria okay VI all right and about that
yeah he he mentions it so
now amnon Cohen who is a contemporary
Israeli Jewish scholar he studied uh the
the Muslim court record for these
and his interest was simply in the
Jewish cases really yeah he was
specifically studying the Jewish cases
he was checking if the Jewish people
were were applying uh for justice and
just just at the Muslim Court one more
point about the sigil right uh and the
Arabic word is probably the same as the
Turkish one here sagil literally means
the record effectively the sagil um and
one more thing about it the Ottoman
Empire probably has and you can correct
me I'm wrong but it probably has the
most preserved court record records
probably in all Isam absolutely
absolutely this is why he was able to
study it okay and the book is titled a
world within a world within Jewish life
as reflected in Muslim court documents
from the Sigil of Jerusalem 16th century
so you know what did he find what did he
find let's let's let's let's let's study
his findings he
writes cases concerning Jews cover a
very wide spectrum of topics okay if we
bear in mind that the Jews je of
Jerusalem had their own separate courts
the number of cases brought to Muslim
Court which actually meant putting
themselves at the mercy of a judge
outside the they had their own separate
cours there yeah they had their own
separate courts called Beth dens rabanal
courts were available can I make a point
about that just just that that level of
autonomy and if you want to call it that
and it's a the term but pluralism right
that was afforded legal yeah pluralism
me for Jewish people is unlike even what
we're we're granted here in the west
100% there is no precedent um uh sorry
there is no example of it there is no
example of it today even in the most
secular liar courts are not they're
ineffectual 100% they don't have legal
power secular States as liberal as they
may be like Sweden Norway Denmark even
they don't allow judicial judicial
autonomies to minori
the Islamic system allowed judicial
autonomies to the Christians as well as
the Jews and that's because of the
prophetic commands and that's because of
the actions the absolutely why would
Muslims force their religion and law
upon the Jewish people they have their
own law let them rule by their own law
so they were Beth Den in Jerusalem what
they called Beth dens Beth b e t h Den d
i ns okay okay so we continue with um
amnon cohan's quote Yeah
so he's saying that uh the Jewish people
were applying to the Muslim Court which
actually meant putting themselves at the
mercy of a judge outside the pale of
their communal and religious identity is
quite impressive the Jews went to Muslim
court for a variety of reasons but the
overwhelming fact was their ongoing and
almost permanent presence there okay
this indicates that they were they went
there not only in search of justice but
did so hoping or rather knowing that
more often than not they would attain
redress when wronged the Jews went to
court to resolve much more than their
conflicts with Muslims or Christian
neighbors they turned to Sharia
authorities this is amnon Cohen by the
way a Jewish historian from Israel
writing this okay they turned to Sharia
authorities to seek redress with respect
to internal differences and even in
matters with their immediate family
intimate relations between husband and
wife wife nafaka maintenance payments to
divorces support of infants etc etc this
is the Jewish people in the 16th century
coming to the Muslims Muslim judges
kadis despite the fact uh that they have
their own courts in the city of
Jerusalem where the rabbis are ruling
over those courts or he goes on to say
their possessions are protected about
the Jewish people now he's writing a
conclusion having discussed the the law
how it dealt with the Jewish cases the
Muslim law and the fact that the the
Jewish people are found to be
permanently present in the Muslim Court
applying for
justice uh and over a thousand cases
were filed within these 70 years over a
thousand cases were filed within these
70 years he goes on Amon Kohan goes on
to say their possessions were protected
although they might have had a pay for
they might have they might have had to
pay for Extra Protection at night for
their houses and Commercial properties
their title deeds and other official
documents indicating their rights were
honored when presented to the court
being treated like those of their Muslim
neighbors the picture emerging from the
sigil documents is
baffling on the one hand we encounter
recurring sultanic decrees sent to
Jerusalem in response to pleas of the
Jews to the effect that nothing should
be done to stop them from applying their
own law regarding a variety of matters
there are also many explicit references
to the overriding importance of applying
Sharia law to them only if they so
choose on the other hand if we look
closely at some of the inheritance lists
we see that the local Court allocated to
female members of Jewish families half
the share given to male members exactly
as in Islamic law
this meant ipof facto a significant
Improvement in the status of Jewish
women with respect to legacies over that
accorded them by Jewish tradition
although it actually meant the
application of Islamic law and in an in
an internal Jewish context he the Muslim
judge defended Jewish causes jeopardized
by high-handed behavior of local
Governors he enabled Jewish businesses
business people he enabled Jewish
business people and Craftsmen to lease
properties from Muslim endowments on an
equal footing with Muslim biders more
generally he respected their rituals and
places of worship and guarded them
against encroachment even when the peret
perpetuators were other Muslim
dignitaries so the conclusion is from
amnon Cohan having presented all this
evidence and these findings after he
studied the sigil record of the city of
Jerusalem in the 16th century the
ottoman Sig sigil record his conclusion
is no one interfered with their internal
organization or the external cultural
and economic
activities talking about the Jewish
people in a world where civil and
political equality or positive social
change affecting the group or even the
individual were not the Norms the
Sultan's Jewish subjects had no reason
to moan their status or begrudge their
conditions of Life the Jews of Ottoman
Jerusalem enjoyed religious and
administrative autonomy within an
Islamic State and as a constructive
Dynamic element of the local economy and
Society they could and actually did
contribute to its functioning therefore
the Jewish people of the city of
Jerusalem during the Ottoman period were
very powerful very prosperous very free
to apply their own law to themselves or
if they so chose the Sharia law in their
Affairs all of this evidence brother
Muhammad hijab yes presented to our
audiences and the Jewish audiences and
the Christian audiences out there what
does it prove it proves that throughout
the Muslim period throughout the history
of the Muslim civilization for over a
thousand years the Jewish people
prospered lived in
Harmony and um flourished and were
honored according to the testimonies of
the Jewish historians Travelers rabbis
themselves today the evidence I
presented brother Muhammad hijab in this
presentation or this in this podcast
none of the evidence I presented is for
Muslims not one piece of evidence came
from the Muslims all the testimonies all
the studies all the academic opinions we
presented here today in this podcast are
from the Jewish authorities and for them
for someone then to make a claim of a
claim of conspiracy would be absurd
wouldn't it you've got all these
different accounts from different
historical periods different geographies
different places in Spain in Greece in
Iraq uh in the Ottoman Empire they can't
all be saying the same thing and lying
or consp conspiring with one another it
would be a global conspiracy going on
for a thousand years yes because these
testimonies you know they are from as
you said different places different
times different people facing different
circumstances different situations
different dynasties but there is one
thing common in all of these testimonies
prosperity of the Jewish people their
honor their protection the security
that's correct okay you've read that out
exactly so so no one no one can in his
right mind deny this evidence it's like
denying the Sun so when the zionists
come out today just like they have been
they have been denying that they are
committing a genocide against
Palestinian children nothing they say
can be taken seriously they are a bunch
of liars
when they say that the Jewish people are
threatened by Muslims or by Palestinians
they are a bunch of liars Muslims are
never never anti-jewish if Muslim
civilization or the Muslim dynasties or
the Muslim armies wanted the Jewish
people dead there would be no Jew alive
today in the world absolutely there
would be no Jewish community alive in
the world because they were being
persecuted and killed in Western Europe
in northern Europe and they found Refuge
with the Muslims and Muslims took them
in as cousins as their own and gave them
reasons to be happy reasons to flourish
so this propaganda after this podcast
can be put to rest forever any Zionist
who opens his mouth ever again yes about
Muslims being anti-jewish Muslims being
anti-semitic Muslims after Jewish blood
Muslims wanting a massacre or a genocide
of the Jew Jewish people just send this
link to them send the video them
absolutely I think you've completely
annihilated the claims and I think I
think in order for someone to to
actually make a case against you they
would be having to uh it's not just
hermeneutical gymnastics they're going
to have to be a historical absolutely
they will have to speak look if I had
quoted the primary sources and put my
own spin on them it would be a different
matter I quoted the primary sources
second and the secondary sources of
modern Scholars Jewish modern Scholars
none of them were Muslim none of Muslims
and they're Jewish and they're saying
the same thing I'm saying yes what are
they saying the Jewish people flourished
throughout the Muslim history they they
they witnessed they experienced the
Golden Age whereby they produced some of
the best intellectuals in the history
the best rabbis the best poets the best
scientists the best intellectuals the
best physicians the best everything the
best V and Generals were born throughout
the Muslim period in Muslim territories
beautiful I I think that's fantastic I
think this is really good information
people from the non-muslim community out
outside of Islam now they can really
look at Islam properly and look at the
history of Islam properly absolutely and
with that we will conclude thank you so
much for
coming thank so much for giving me this
opportunity and uh we'll put the um all
the references that he mentioned in the
uh in the comment section pinned
comments and also in the description
box you're still here just make sure
that you donate by clicking the link
below cuz the rewards are
unimaginable oh